# Broken brute-force protection, IP block

## Description

[This lab](https://portswigger.net/web-security/authentication/password-based/lab-broken-bruteforce-protection-ip-block) is vulnerable due to a logic flaw in its password brute-force protection.

## Reproduction and proof of concept

1. With Burp running, investigate the login page. Observe that your IP is temporarily blocked if you submit 3 incorrect logins in a row. However, notice that you can reset the counter for the number of failed login attempts by logging in to your own account before this limit is reached.
2. Enter an invalid username and password, then send the `POST /login` request to Burp Intruder. Create a pitchfork attack with payload positions in both the `username` and `password` parameters.
3. On the Payloads tab, select payload **set 1**. Add a list of payloads that alternates between your username and `carlos`. Make sure that your username is first and that `carlos` is repeated at least 100 times.
4. Edit the list of candidate passwords and add your own password before each one. Make sure that your password is aligned with your username in the other list.
5. Add this list to payload **set 2** and start the attack.
6. When the attack finishes, filter the results to hide responses with a 200 status code. Sort the remaining results by username. There should only be a single 302 response for requests with the username `carlos`. Make a note of the password from the **Payload 2** column. If you get no `302` for `carlos` and only a few for `wiener`, throttle the attack by changing the **Resource Pool** settings for the attack. I throttled it back to only 1 Concurrent Requests.
7. Log in to `carlos`'s account using the password that you identified and access his account page to solve the lab.

## Exploitability

An attacker will need to log into `wiener:peter`, brute-force the carlos's [password](https://portswigger.net/web-security/authentication/auth-lab-passwords), then log in and access his account page. 
