# CSRF where token validation depends on token being present

## Description

[This lab](https://portswigger.net/web-security/csrf/bypassing-token-validation/lab-token-validation-depends-on-token-being-present)'s email change functionality is vulnerable to CSRF. 

## Reproduction and proof of concept

1. Open Burp's browser and log in to the `wiener` account. Submit the "Update email" form, and find the resulting request in Proxy history.
2. Send the request to Burp Repeater and check that when changing the value of the `csrf` parameter, the request is rejected.
3. Delete the `csrf` parameter entirely to check that the request is now accepted.
4. When using Burp Suite Professional, right-click on the request, and from the context menu select **Engagement tools -> Generate CSRF PoC**. Enable the option to include an **auto-submit script** and click **Regenerate**.

When using Burp Suite Community Edition, use the following HTML template, and get the request URL by right-clicking and selecting **Copy URL**.

```text
<form method="POST" action="https://YOUR-LAB-ID.web-security-academy.net/my-account/change-email">
    <input type="hidden" name="$param1name" value="$param1value">
</form>
<script>
    document.forms[0].submit();
</script>
```

5. Go to the exploit server, paste the exploit HTML into the **Body** field, and click **Store**.
6. Try it out by clicking **View exploit** and check the resulting HTTP request and response.
7. Click **Deliver to victim**.

## Exploitability

An attacker needs to use the exploit server to host an HTML page that uses a CSRF attack to change the viewer's email address. There is an accounts on the application that can be used to design the attack. The credentials are`wiener:peter`.
