# Routing-based SSRF

## Description

[This lab](https://portswigger.net/web-security/host-header/exploiting/lab-host-header-routing-based-ssrf) is vulnerable to routing-based SSRF via the Host header. This can be exploited to access an insecure intranet admin panel located on an internal IP address. 

## Reproduction

1. Send the `GET /` request that received a `200` response to Burp Repeater.
2. In Burp Repeater, select the `Host` header value, right-click and select **Insert Collaborator payload** to replace it with a Collaborator domain name. Send the request.
3. Go to the Collaborator tab and click **Poll now**. You should see a couple of network interactions in the table, including an HTTP request. This confirms that you are able to make the website's middleware issue requests to an arbitrary server.
4. Send the `GET /` request to Burp Intruder. In Burp Intruder, go to the **Positions** tab and clear the default payload positions. Delete the value of the `Host` header and replace it with the following IP address, adding a payload position to the final octet:

```text
Host: 192.168.0.ยง0ยง
```
    
5. On the **Payloads** tab, select the payload type **Numbers**. Under **Payload Options**, enter the values:

```text
From: 0
To: 255
Step: 1
```

6. Click **Start attack**. A warning will inform you that the `Host` header does not match the specified target host. As we've done this deliberately, you can ignore this message. When the attack finishes, click the **Status** column to sort the results. Notice that a single request received a 302 response redirecting you to `/admin`. Send this request to Burp Repeater.
7. In Burp Repeater, change the request line to `GET /admin` and send the request. In the response, observe that you have successfully accessed the admin panel.
8. Study the form for deleting users. Notice that it will generate a `POST` request to `/admin/delete` with both a `CSRF` token and `username` parameter. You need to manually craft an equivalent request to delete Carlos.
9. Change the path in your request to `/admin/delete`. Copy the `CSRF` token from the displayed response and add it as a `query` parameter to your request. Also add a `username` parameter containing `carlos`. The request line should now look like this but with a different CSRF token:

```text
GET /admin/delete?csrf=QCT5OmPeAAPnyTKyETt29LszLL7CbPop&username=carlos
```

10. Copy the session cookie from the `Set-Cookie` header in the displayed response and add it to your request.
11. Right-click on your request and select **Change request method**. Burp will convert it to a POST request.
12. Send the request to delete Carlos and solve the lab.

## Exploitability

An attacker will need to access the internal admin panel located in the `192.168.0.0/24` range, then delete Carlos. _Note: To prevent the Academy platform being used to attack third parties, the firewall blocks interactions between the labs and arbitrary external systems. To solve the lab, use Burp Collaborator's default public server._
