# Exploiting DOM clobbering to enable XSS

## Description

[This lab](https://portswigger.net/web-security/dom-based/dom-clobbering/lab-dom-xss-exploiting-dom-clobbering) contains a DOM-clobbering vulnerability. The comment functionality allows "safe" HTML.

## Reproduction and proof of concept

1. Analysis:

The site uses the `DOMPurify` filter in an attempt to reduce DOM-based vulnerabilities.`DOMPurify` allows for the use of the `cid:` protocol, which does not URL-encode double-quotes. This means an encoded double-quote can be injected that will be decoded at runtime. As a result, an injection can cause the `defaultAvatar` variable to be assigned the clobbered property `{avatar: ‘cid:"onerror=alert(1)//’}` the next time the page is loaded.

The `defaultAvatar` object is implemented using this dangerous pattern containing the logical OR operator in conjunction with a global variable. This makes it vulnerable to [DOM clobbering](https://portswigger.net/web-security/dom-based/dom-clobbering).

This object can be clobbered using anchor tags. Creating two anchors with the same ID causes them to be grouped in a DOM collection. The name attribute in the second anchor contains the value `avatar`, which will clobber the avatar property with the contents of the href attribute.

2. Go to one of the blog posts and create a comment containing the following anchors:

```text
<a id=defaultAvatar><a id=defaultAvatar name=avatar href="cid:&quot;onerror=alert(1)//">
```

3. Return to the blog post and create a second comment containing any random text. The next time the page loads, the `alert()` is called.

The page for a specific blog post imports the JavaScript file `loadCommentsWithDomPurify.js`, which contains the following code:

```text
let defaultAvatar = window.defaultAvatar || {avatar: '/resources/images/avatarDefault.svg'}
```

When you make a second post, the browser uses the newly-clobbered global variable, which smuggles the payload in the `onerror` event handler and triggers the `alert()`.

## Exploitability

To solve this lab, an attacker will need to construct an HTML injection that clobbers a variable and uses XSS to call the `alert()` function.
