# Web cache poisoning with an unkeyed cookie

## Description

[This lab](https://portswigger.net/web-security/web-cache-poisoning/exploiting-design-flaws/lab-web-cache-poisoning-with-an-unkeyed-cookie) is vulnerable to web cache poisoning because cookies aren't included in the cache key. An unsuspecting user regularly visits the site's home page.

## Reproduction and proof of concept

1. With Burp running, load the website's home page.
2. In Burp, go to **Proxy -> HTTP history** and study the requests and responses generated. Notice that the first response received sets the cookie `fehost=prod-cache-01`.
3. Reload the home page and observe that the value from the `fehost` cookie is reflected inside a double-quoted JavaScript object in the response.

```text
<script>
    data = {
        "host":"0a500060032ac28dc2a811090016009c.web-security-academy.net",
        "path":"/",
        "frontend":"prod-cache-01"
    }
</script>
```

4. Send the request to Burp Repeater and add a cache-buster query parameter, such as `?cb=1234`.
5. Change the value of the cookie to an arbitrary string and resend the request. Confirm that this string is reflected in the response.
6. Place a suitable XSS payload in the `fehost` cookie, for example:

```text
fehost=someString"-alert(1)-"someString
```

7. Replay the request until you see the payload in the response and `X-Cache: hit` in the headers.
8. Load the URL in your browser and confirm the `alert()` fires.
9. Go back Burp Repeater, remove the cache buster, and replay the request to keep the cache poisoned until the victim visits the site and the lab is solved.

## Exploitability

An attacker will need to poison the cache with a response that executes `alert(1)` in the visitor's browser. 
